FAQs: Recycling and Proper Disposal CAPS   
      

  Credit: Recycle by City Always replace your cap onto the empty and clean plastic bottle it came from. Then, place into your recycling bin to ensure both plastic components are successfully processed at your local recycling facility. CLEAN, EMPTY AND DRY RECYCLABLES   
      

  Before you place your recyclable item into your bin, rinse it clean and allow it to dry. Soap is not necessary. Clean recyclables reduce contamination of recycling batches. Contamination can result in recyclable materials being sent to the landfill. SHREDDED PAPER   
      

  Shredded paper should not be placed in your curbside recycling bin. The small size of the fragmented pieces does not allow for proper sorting at the recycling facility. Generally, items smaller than a credit card should not be put in the recycling bin as they are difficult to sort at facilities. BAGGED RECYCLABLES   
      

  Do not bag your recyclables. Keep your items loose in your bin. Unlike garbage where everything in the trash bag goes to the same place: the landfill, the items in the recycling bin must be sorted. To increase the ease of sorting, please place your items directly into your recycling bin. Recycling Tip: Use paper bags to collect your recycling. Then, pour the contents directly into the recycling bin, fold up the paper bag, and place into the bin, as well. If you do not have paper bags and you need to collect your items in a bag, use a trash bag but dump the contents directly into the recycling bin and reuse the trash bag. PLASTIC BAGS   
      

  Plastic bags can become tangled in recycling equipment and should never be placed in your curbside recycling bin. Instead, recycle them at participating grocery and retail stores. Click here for locations near you. PLASTIC STORAGE BAGS AND WRAP   
      

  Like plastic bags, plastic storage bags and plastic wrap cannot go in curbside recycling. Following our waste hierarchy, consider: Reducing your use of these items or switching over to reusable storage bags or containers Reusing the bag for items like pens and pencils Recycling the bag or wrap at participating grocery or retail stores; click here for locations near you PLASTIC PACKAGING MATERIALS   
      

    
      

  Online packaging materials made from plastic film cannot go in your curbside recycling bin. You can recycle these plastic materials at locations accepting plastic film. To find a recycling location near you, click here. TIRESAccording to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA), Illinois residents generate more than 14 million used tires per year and none of the tires can go to the landfill as they are banned by state law. If improperly disposed, tires can exacerbate vector-borne diseases by providing habitat for vectors, such as mosquitos. Further, dumping of these tires can pose serious degradation to properties, as pictured below.   
      

  Before forced removal by the IEPA in cooperation with Cook County   
      

  After the forced removal by the IEPA in cooperation with Cook County Do you have an old tire you need to get rid of? Visit Earth911’s guide for guidance on recycling used tires. For a list of used tire processors, visit this page from IEPA. Want to repurpose your used tire? Consider new items you can make out of your old, clean tires, like a tire swing or a planter. For more fun ideas, check out this video. WASTE COLLECTIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL VERSUS COMMERCIAL ENTITIES  
      

  Many one-day events or permanent collection sites will only accept residential waste. If you are a business or organization, please contact the event or site coordinator before dropping off any waste materials. MOTOR OIL   
      

  Motor oil cannot be sent to the landfill and can pose risks to our waterways and wildlife if not disposed of properly.  Instead, you can drop off your oil at the following: Auto parts stores and household hazardous waste facilities. Additionally, all sites listed above in Permanent Household Hazardous Waste Drop-Off Centers accept automotive oil.  PROPANE CYLINDERS   
      

  Propane tanks can cause serious dangers to recycling facilities as they have been found to explode. To ensure your own safety and that of the waste haulers, please dispose of tanks in the proper ways: Do not put in recycling bin. Do not put in trash. Some retailers of propane will accept trade-in tanks for new, filled tanks. Contact the manufacturer of the tank for proper disposal. Some household hazardous waste drop-off centers will accept tanks. Please call ahead before. Naperville Household Hazardous Waste Facility takes large grill tanks only. City of Chicago Household Chemicals & Computer Recycling Facility will accept BBQ tanks. Some scrap metal recyclers take tanks. Please call ahead before.  Eliminate the need for disposal by purchasing a refillable tank. COFFEE CUPS  
      

  Your cup of joe is a recycling no. Lids, straws, and hot beverage cups should be kept out of your curbside recycling bin. Despite the paper composition of hot beverage cups, they contain a lining that degrades the overall quality of the recycling batch and should not be recycled in your bin. For iced coffee, some uncertainty remains about whether the plastic cup is recyclable. Please check with your local authority to determine whether plastic coffee cups can go in your bin.  To reduce waste and save resources, use a reusable coffee cup and straw! Some coffee establishments even offer discounts when you bring your own cup/mug.  BLACK PLASTIC   
      

  Credit: CuBE Plastics Black plastic should not be placed in curbside recycling. It tends to confuse the recycling technology and cannot always be properly sorted. This can decrease the quality of recycling stocks and cause potential market issues. Please throw black plastic in the trash and consider how you can eliminate future use. One suggestion would be to bring your own container to take home leftovers from a restaurant. PUMPS AND NOZZLES FROM PLASTIC BOTTLES  
      

  Please keep all pump and nozzles, like those found on lotions and shampoo bottles, out of the recycling bin. Generally, these are made of plastic but also contain metal components, like springs, that cannot be recycled with the plastic of the pump/nozzle nor bottle. Please remove all nozzles and pumps before recycling your plastic bottles. BIODEGRADABLE OR COMPOSTABLE OBJECTS IN CURBSIDE RECYCLING   
      

  Biodegradable and compostable items should be kept out of curbside recycling. Even if made from bioplastics, they are not the same as traditional plastics accepted by recycling facilities and should not be placed in your bin. Instead, these items should be sent to an industrial composting facility, checking with the facility to confirm that they accept such products. Industrial facilities are the best option because unfortunately many of these items require much higher temperatures than backyard composting allows. If you do not have access to an industrial composting facility that accepts these products, please place them in the trash. PIZZA BOXES  
      

  Even though pizza boxes are cardboard, they can cause contamination due to grease and food particles. Try ripping off the clean top portion of the box and recycling that instead. Ideally, rip off the top of the box even if the pizza box has no food particles or grease. This helps the chances that your box will be recycled because workers at recycling facilities do not have time to check every pizza box that comes down their conveyor and may instinctually pull and throw away pizza boxes that they see. The Department of Environment and Sustainability does not accept or pick-up recyclable goods or waste. If you have questions on how to recycle or dispose of an item after reviewing our library, contact us at WasteandRecycling@CookCountyil.gov